---
layout:     post
title:      "Holy Foccacia! A good place to start the blog!"
subtitle:   "This Foccacia is amazing, adaptable and an absolute crowd pleaser!"
date:       2015-03-29 12:00:00
author:     "Luke Tait"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

<h1><b>Why should I make this bread?</b></h1>

<p> This foccacia is one of the first types of bread that I learned to make when I started baking and it's still one of my favourites. It can be a little tricky to figure it out at first, but once you master it you will find that it's one of the most versatile breads you can make.'

<p> I usually pull this out of the bag when I'm asked to make bread for family gatherings and parties. This recipe will make two wee ones or one big one 

<h3>Here's what you need:</h3>

<ul>
<li>500g Strong White Flour</li>
<li>2 Instant Yeast Sachets</li>
<li>10g Salt</li>
<li>400g Water</li>
<li>Olive oil 40ml plus more for kneading</li>
<li>Elbow grease</li>
</ul>  

<p> Bung all the dry ingredients into a mixing bowl, make sure that you keep the salt and the yeast separate though as they dont get on. Make a little dip in the middle and pour in half the water in the bowl and get mixing! You can do this with a spoon or you can do it by hand, you can also use a mixer if you have one.</p> 

<p> Keep adding water gradually to the mixture, this is important! This bread has a higher than usual water content so if you add it in all at once you will end up with a puddle of mud in the bowl.</p>

<p>Once all the flour has been combined into a nice wet ball, pour a little olive oil on your worktop and throw the ball onto it. It's kneading time!</p>

<p>If you've never done this before, this will be hard! Olive oil is your friend here, you will need to knead this for about 10 minutes and at some stages you will question whether it works or not but the dough will start to come together. Pour some olive oil on in a plastic tub and put the dough in to prove for an hour</p>



